# DCW-model-by-Cipolini-et-al.--2021-
DCW model by Cipolini et al. (2021)

The selection and optimization of asset portfolios is a fundamental problem of portfoliotheory and is essential for investors to minimize the risk for expected returns. Markowitz(1952) modern portfolio theory is one of the most widely used approaches for solving thisportfolio allocation problem. It moreover builds the basis for later developments such asthe minimum variance portfolio (MVP), which allocatesnfinancial assets that the riskfor the expected return is minimised. Portfolio allocation and risk assessment are basedon the correlation of assets which enables the estimation of optimal portfolio weights. By using high-frequency data, it becomes possible to analyse the time-varying financialvariance and to determine the MVP weights dynamically. A recent approach by Cipollini et al. (2021) derives a vector autoregressive moving average (VARMA) process of portfolio weights via an autoregressive (AR) process of portfoliovariances. The model predicts conditional portfolio weights of the MVP as a linear function of past conditional and realised conditions (Dynamic Conditional Weights, DCW). It is innovative that the portfolio weights are predicted directly and not via the time series ofvar-cov matrices. In the project, the DCW model is implemented and benchmarked against the following models: HAR, Random Walk, Naive (using the sample var-cov matrix) and Static. An often discussed feature of the MVP is the possibility of negative weights (short selling)(Levy and Ritov, 2001; Jiang et al., 2019; Park and Kim, 2019). Since short selling is difficult to implement or even prohibited in practice most investors impose the restrictionthat portfolio weights should be positive when constructing optimal portfolios. Thus, the no shortselling restiction is also implemented.

## Original paper
Cipollini, F., G. M. Gallo, and A. Palandri (2021).  A dynamic conditional approach toforecasting portfolio weights.International Journal of Forecasting.
